# Syllabus Day lmao and Uninformed Search

* Course goals: AI as it’s used.
* Focus on machine learning / complex search stuff.
* Office hours, Tuesday(1-2 PM), THursday (4-5), or by appointment.
* Can email him with topics we want him to cover.
* 4 weeks on search (oh boy that’s a thing).
* Couple weeks on decision making + probability
* Last section is ML

## Class structure:
* There are videos that will be seen due for each class.
* Quizzes each class. 40%
        * Based on videos + prior lectures.
        * 2 lowest will be dropped.
* Quiz on screen.

## Projects:
* 4 group projects (10% each)
        * Any language you like (I will probably use Python).
        * Submit on canvas.
* Email Beck about group member difficulties.
* 1 Final project (20%).
    * Propose something to work on, must use AI.
    * Do it, write it up.
        * ~ 2500 words

## Content now Lol:
* How to tell a computer from a human.  
    * What questions should a machine be able to handle?
    * Turing test.
    * Defines intelligence based on what instead of how. 
* Should we model based on human mind works?
    * Good for inspiration, maybe not for all of it.

## Performance Measures:
* Want to make agents good.
* What’s good?
    * Performance measures, how to define?
    * What’s good for Poker, vs urban planning.
    * Autonomous car decisions?

## Now, Search topics:
* Search
  * How to look ahead.
* Looking at tree search.
    * < 100 actions.
    * No two paths with the same result.
* Looking at shortest path searching. 
    * Abstraction is key step for dealing with actions.
* Tree search algorithms.
    * How to order the search (depth first vs breadth search).
    * Search Algorithm Evaluation:
        * Completeness:  Does it always find a solution?
        * Optimality:  Does it always find a least-cost solution?
        * Time complexity: How many nodes to find?
        * Space complexity: How much memory does it use?
    * Breadth-first.
        *  Insert-all is a FIFO queue (first in, first out).
        *  ~ Layer by layer. Root, then first branches, then second branches, etc.
        * BFS has a pretty bad worst-case space consumption.
        * Complete, optimal if cost is 1 per setup, 
        * Time: O(b^{d+1}) cannot avoid exponential time when searching.
        * Space: O(b^{d+1}) Real bad. Often space is the limiting factor.
        * Inapplicable for real problems.
    * Depth-first:
        * LIFO queue(stack).
        * Follows a branch to the end, then goes up one level, down to other options, etc.
        * Maximum space usage is 
        * Sketch in AI notebook.
        * Space: O(b*d)
        * Not Complete or optimal.
        * Time is still exponential.
    * Depth-limited search:
        * Depth-first search, but there's a depth limit L, that is nodes at depth L have no successors.
    * Iterative deepening search.
        * Depth-limited search with incrementing L (1, 2, ...), until a solution is found.
        * Repeatedly searches the first node again and again. 
        * Worse, not necessarily too bad on operations.
        * Top level repeated d-1 times extra.
        * Next level repeated d-2 times extra.
        *  etc.
        * Multiply number of nodes on each level with number of extra times revisited.
        * Actually used, because it's pretty good. Bulk of nodes not repeated that much overall.
        * Also stops whenever you want it to. 
        * Both complete and optimal, Space: O(bd), Time: O(b^d) like usual.
