# Knowledge Based Search
* Time and space complexity measurements        
        * b: max branching factor of search tree
        * d: depth of the least-cost solution.
        * m: maximum depth of the state (search) space.
* With uninformed search, will take exponential time always.
        * O(b^d)
        * Can't make d smaller, but can reduce b (branching factor).
* Heuristics often a relaxation of the actual problem (making the problem easier).
* Greedy search.
        * f(n) = h(n)
        * expands node that appears to be closest to goal at any given moment.
        * In Bucharest example, heuristic is straight-line distance to Bucharest.
        * Neither Complete more optimal.
        * Time is still O(b^m), but a good heuristic can give dramatic improvement.
        * Space: keeps all nodes in memory. But branching factor reduced.
                * deals with dead ends.
* A* search.
        * Heuristic cost to goal is powerful, but must include how far we've traveled.
        * Minimizing both cost to get here (past), cost to get to goal heuristic (future).
        * A* adds together cost so far and cost to goal.
        * If heuristic is inadmissible (path can be shorter than heuristic), then A* wouldn't be optimal.
        * Admissable: if for everything node n, h(n) <= h*(n), where h*(n) is the true cost.
        * inadmissible heuristics would still find something.
        * Some problems are np hard, so exponential not great. It runs slowly.
        * Willing to accept non-optimal result for faster performance.
                * Multiply h(n) by some constant k > 1. 
                        * k is then a hyper parameter.
        * How to deal with memory?
                * Iterative deepening A*, stopping search at some max cost.
                * if solved, return solution, else, max_cost = max_cost + k2.
                * pseudo-DFS, "Uniform cost search", with tweaks.
                * Only look at best k candidates (Beam search)
## Shifting Gears
* 8 Puzzle. (Shuffling, then getting ordered 1-8.
* cast as an A* search problem.
* Multiple heuristics. If h_2(n) >= h_1(n) for all n, then h_2 dominates h_1
    * h_2 is better for search.
    * if it varies whether h_2 is better or not, swap between heuristics.
* Effective branching factor:
        * Directed search makes for an "effective" branching factor smaller than the actual branching factor.
        * Computable.
* Where do heuristics come from"
        * People lmao
        * Sometimes computers can consider a simpler version of the problem, a relaxation.
* Search doesn't tell you anything you don't already know.